brainjvm
========

## What is brainjvm?

BrainJVM is a simple [Brainf\*ck](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brainfuck) parser and compiler that generates java source code,
as well as JVM byte code. The byte code assembler uses the Java 6 [JavaCompiler](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/javax/tools/JavaCompiler.html) libraries
as part of a two stage compilation pipeline (Brainf\*ck -> Java -> JVM byte code).

## How do I use it?

The package includes output writer classes allowing you to write the resulting compiled
code to a file on disk, memory as a byte array, a StringBuffer instance or to STDOUT.

Below is an example compiling Brainf\*ck to Java source and writing it to the console:

```java
package com.mypackage;

import brainjvm.compiler.BrainfuckCompiler;
import brainjvm.utils.BrainfuckConsoleOutputWriter;

public class WriteJavaSource {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        BrainfuckCompiler instance = new BrainfuckCompiler();
        BrainfuckConsoleOutputWriter writer = new BrainfuckConsoleOutputWriter();
        writer.setRaw(false);
        instance.setOutputWriter(writer);
        instance.compile("HelloWorld", "++++++++++[>+++++++>++++++++++>+++>+<<<<-]>++.\ 
>+.+++++++..+++.>++.<<+++++++++++++++.>.+++.------.--------.>+.>.");
    }

}

```

Here's an example compiling Brainf\*ck to JVM byte code and writing it to a file:

```java
package com.mypackage;

import brainjvm.assembler.BrainfuckAssembler;
import brainjvm.utils.BrainfuckFileOutputWriter;

public class WriteJVMByteCode {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        BrainfuckFileOutputWriter writer = new BrainfuckFileOutputWriter("HelloWorld", "/tmp/");
        writer.setRaw(true);
        BrainfuckAssembler instance = new BrainfuckAssembler();
        instance.setOutputWriter(writer);
        instance.compile("HelloWorld", "++++++++++[>+++++++>++++++++++>+++>+<<<<-]>++.>+.\
+++++++..+++.>++.<<+++++++++++++++.>.+++.------.--------.>+.>.");
    }

}
```

I won't bother writing examples for every possible use case, you can just generate
and read the [javadoc](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Javadoc) for the project if you
want to know more about the inner workings of the API.

## Why?

I dunno, why not? I got interested in screwing around with Brainf\*ck while writing
[brainf\*ckjs](https://github.com/dan-eyles/brainfuckjs) and wanted to write a simple
compiler instead of an interpreter.

Originally I was planning on writing the assembler using [Apache BCEL](http://commons.apache.org/bcel/),
but after playing around with it for a while I realized I was going to end up ploughing way too many hours
into the project and instead chose to use the [JavaCompiler](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/javax/tools/JavaCompiler.html) package included in Java 6. BCEL is pretty neat,
you should definitely check it out, I doubt you'll end up assembling more efficient byte code than the **javac** compiler though.

If you want to see the actual byte code for the classes generated by brainjvm just use the **javap**
cli utility included in the Java toolchain:

```
javap -c -private HelloWorld
```

## License yadda yadda yadda

Copyright (c) 2013, Dan Eyles (dan [at] irlgaming [dot] com)
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
   * Neither the name of IRL Gaming nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL IRL Gaming BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
